ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For further discussion of our products and services, technology and competitive strengths, refer to Item 1- Business. For discussion related to changes in financial condition and the results of operations for fiscal year 2024-related items, refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2024, which was filed with the SEC on January 30, 2025.

Overview and 2025 Highlights

We are focused on bringing artificial intelligence into the real world, through products and services like FSD (Supervised) and Robotaxi, as well as working to develop and commercialize AI robots (including Optimus). We intend to leverage our current operations, in which we design, develop, manufacture, sell and lease high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy generation and storage systems that increasingly deliver AI-related and enhanced software and services to our customers, to achieve that objective.

As a result of rapidly evolving trade and fiscal policy, uncertainty in the automotive and energy markets continues, posing risks to our global supply chain and cost structure which could have a meaningfully adverse impact on demand for our products and our profitability. The current tariff regime will have a relatively larger impact on our energy generation and storage business compared to our automotive business. While we prepare for near-term challenges to our business under current policies, we are focused on long-term growth opportunities as we continue to make prudent investments. 

In 2025, we produced approximately 1.66 million consumer vehicles and delivered approximately 1.64 million consumer vehicles. We are focused on profitable growth via a differentiated and efficiently managed product portfolio that leverages our existing factories and production lines, further improving and deploying our FSD (Supervised) capabilities, including future autonomous capabilities through our purpose-built Robotaxi product, Cybercab, reducing costs, increasing vehicle production, utilized capacity and delivery capabilities, improving and developing our vehicles, battery and AI compute technologies, vertically integrating and localizing our supply chain, and expanding our global infrastructure, including our service and charging infrastructure. We have continued to expand and refine our Robotaxi service after its June 2025 launch, capitalizing on our AI investments and scalable mobility infrastructure to advance a service-driven business model. 

In 2025, we deployed 46.7 GWh of energy storage products. We are focused on ramping the production, increasing the market penetration of our energy storage products, developing our battery technologies and vertically integrating, localizing and expanding our supply chain.

In 2025, we recognized total revenues of $94.83 billion, representing a decrease of $2.86 billion compared to the prior year. In 2025, our net income attributable to common stockholders was $3.79 billion, representing a decrease of $3.30 billion compared to the prior year. We continue to ramp production and build and optimize our manufacturing capacity, expand our operations while focusing on further cost reductions and operational efficiencies to enable increased deliveries and deployments of our products, and invest in research and development to accelerate our AI, software and fleet-based profits for further revenue growth.

We ended 2025 with $44.06 billion in cash and cash equivalents and investments, representing an increase of $7.50 billion from the end of 2024. Our cash flows provided by operating activities were $14.75 billion in 2025 compared to $14.92 billion in 2024, representing a decrease of $176 million. Capital expenditures amounted to $8.53 billion in 2025 compared to $11.34 billion in 2024, representing a decrease of $2.82 billion. Overall growth has allowed our business to generally fund itself, and we will continue to make critical high-value investments while maintaining a strong balance sheet.

31

Management Opportunities, Challenges and Uncertainties and 2026 Outlook

Automotive and AI Enabled Products—Production

We are focused on growing and optimizing our manufacturing capacity, which includes capacity for manufacturing newer vehicle models and future vehicles utilizing aspects of our next generation platform, while maximizing production rate and efficiency at our Gigafactories. In 2025, we completed the refresh of our vehicle lineup with the launch of the new Model Y and additional variants for Model 3 and Model Y. The next phase of production growth will be initiated by advances in autonomy and the introduction of new products, including those built on our next generation vehicle platform, as well as our ability to efficiently manufacture our own cells that we are developing to have high-volume output, lower capital and production costs and longer range. Our goals are to improve vehicle performance, decrease production costs and increase affordability and customer awareness. We are also capitalizing on our strengths in real-world AI data to advance the development of Optimus, a general purpose, autonomous humanoid robot. 

These plans are subject to uncertainties inherent in establishing and ramping manufacturing operations, which may be exacerbated by new product and manufacturing technologies we introduce, the number of concurrent international projects, any industry-wide component constraints, labor shortages and any future impact from events outside of our control. For example, changes to fiscal and trade policy with respect to tariffs, export controls and other restrictions may impact our global supply chain cost structure and availability, affecting not only vehicle production, but also facility expansions. Moreover, we have set ambitious technological targets with our plans for battery cells as well as for iterative manufacturing and design improvements for our vehicles.

Automotive and AI Enabled Products—Demand, Sales, Deliveries and Infrastructure

Our cost reduction efforts, cost innovation strategies, and additional localized procurement and manufacturing are key to our vehicles’ affordability and have allowed us to competitively price our vehicles. We will also continue to generate demand by improving our vehicles’ performance and functionality, including through product offerings and features utilizing artificial intelligence such as FSD (Supervised) and other software, and delivering new vehicles and vehicle options. In addition, we believe the launch of our Robotaxi service unlocks the potential for significant business growth to advance a service-driven business model. We will continue to improve safety and profitability while scaling the network. In addition, we have been increasing awareness, and expanding our vehicle financing programs, including attractive leasing terms for our customers. We will also continue to work on developing our robotics offerings. 

However, we operate in a cyclical industry that is sensitive to shifting consumer trends, political and regulatory uncertainty, including with respect to trade and the environment, all of which can be compounded by inflationary pressures, rising energy prices, interest rate fluctuations and the liquidity of enterprise customers. For example, as inflationary pressures increased across the markets in which we operate, central banks in developed countries raised interest rates rapidly and substantially, which impacted the affordability of vehicle lease and finance arrangements. Further, sales of vehicles in the automotive industry also tend to be cyclical in many markets, which may expose us to increased volatility as we expand and adjust our operations. Moreover, as additional competitors enter the marketplace and help bring the world closer to sustainable transportation, we will have to adjust and continue to execute well to maintain our momentum. Additionally, our suppliers’ liquidity and allocation plans may be affected by current challenges in the automotive industry, which could reduce our access to components or result in unfavorable changes to cost. These macroeconomic and industry trends have had, and will likely continue to have, an impact on the pricing of, and order rate for our vehicles, and in turn our operating margin. 

Changes in government and economic policies, incentives or tariffs may also impact our production, cost structure and the competitive landscape. For instance, while the final scope and application of recently announced changes in trade policy remain uncertain at this time, higher tariffs on imports and subsequent retaliatory tariffs could adversely impact consumer spending and demand for durable goods and related services. Furthermore, certain provisions of the OBBBA, including the removal of tax credits for electric vehicles, may also impact consumer demand for electric vehicles in general. We will continue to adjust accordingly to such developments, and we believe our ongoing cost reduction efforts, including through production innovation, process improvements and logistics optimization, and focus on operating leverage, vertical integration and supply chain localization will continue to benefit us in relation to our competitors. Our new products and our advances in autonomy and robotics, position us for future growth.

32

As our vehicle production increases, we must work constantly to similarly increase vehicle delivery capability so that it does not become a bottleneck on our total deliveries. As we expand our manufacturing operations globally, we will also have to continue to increase and staff our delivery, servicing and charging infrastructure accordingly, maintain our vehicle reliability and optimize our Supercharger locations to ensure cost effectiveness and customer satisfaction. In particular, as other automotive manufacturers have announced their adoption of NACS and agreements with us to utilize our Superchargers, we must correspondingly expand our network in order to ensure adequate availability to meet customer demands. We also remain focused on continued enhancements of the capability and efficiency of our servicing operations. In tandem with the launch of our Robotaxi business, we are focused on developing and optimizing dedicated infrastructure, including in relation to vehicle cleaning and maintenance, charging, security, teleoperations and fleet management, to ensure service quality as we continue to scale. 

Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment

The long-term success of this business is dependent upon incremental volume growth. We continue to increase the production and capabilities of our energy storage products to meet high levels of demand, including the ramps of our Megafactories in Shanghai and Lathrop, California, and the construction of a new Megafactory near Houston, Texas. In 2025, we introduced Megapack 3 and Megablock, our next-generation industrial storage product, and began manufacturing a new residential retrofit solar panel. For Megapack, energy storage deployments can vary meaningfully quarter to quarter depending on the timing of specific project milestones and logistics. As these product lines grow, we will have to maintain adequate battery cell supply for our energy storage products. At the same time, changes in government and economic incentives or tariffs may also impact our sales, cost structure and the competitive landscape. For instance, import tariffs by the US government and the provisions of the OBBBA could significantly increase battery cell expenses and impact costs for our consumers, negatively impacting consumer demand. Despite these challenges, as AI infrastructure drives rapid load growth, we see opportunities for our energy storage products to stabilize the grid, shift energy when it is needed most and provide additional power capacity.

Cash Flow and Capital Expenditure Trends

Our capital expenditures are typically difficult to project beyond the short-term given the number and breadth of our core projects at any given time, and may further be impacted by uncertainties in future global market conditions and shifting global trade and fiscal policy. We are simultaneously developing and ramping new products, building or ramping manufacturing facilities on three continents, piloting the development and manufacture of new battery cell technologies, expanding our Supercharger network and investing in autonomy, robotics and other artificial intelligence enabled training and products and its supporting infrastructure, and the pace of our capital spend may vary depending on overall priority among projects, the pace at which we meet milestones, production adjustments to and among our various products, increased capital efficiencies and the addition of new projects. We are focused on long-term growth opportunities through critical, high-value investments. We currently expect our capital expenditures to be in excess of $20 billion in 2026, driven by our AI initiatives, including investments in compute infrastructure and data centers, the expansion and ramp of our manufacturing and R&D production lines and facilities, and growth in our fleet of company-operated AI-enabled assets and our retail, service and charging footprint. We believe this strategy will position our Company for further growth as we make investments in a capital efficient manner. 

Our business has generally been consistently generating cash flow from operations in excess of our level of capital spend, and with better working capital management resulting in shorter days sales outstanding than days payable outstanding, our sales growth is also generally facilitating positive cash generation. We have and will continue to utilize such cash flows, among other things, to invest in autonomy and robotics, further vertically integrate our supply chain, expand our product roadmap and provide financing options to our customers. At the same time, periods of heightened levels of capital expenditures due to capital-intensive projects and other potential variables such as rising material prices and increases in supply chain and labor expenses resulting from changes in global trade conditions and labor availability, will necessitate additional funding beyond our operating cash flow. 

33

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience, as appropriate, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period. Accordingly, actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected.

The estimates used for, but not limited to, determining significant economic incentive for resale value guarantee arrangements, sales return reserves, resale value guarantee liabilities, income tax, the collectability of accounts and finance receivables, fair value and probability assessments of stock-based awards, inventory valuation, warranties, fair value of long-lived assets, fair value of financial instruments, fair value and residual value of operating lease vehicles and energy generation and storage systems subject to leases could be impacted. We have assessed the impact and are not aware of any specific events or circumstances that required an update to our estimates and assumptions or materially affected the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of the date of issuance of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These estimates may change as new events occur and additional information is obtained. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Revenue Recognition

Automotive Sales

Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to cash and financing deliveries of new vehicles, and specific other features and services that meet the definition of a performance obligation under Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”), including access to our internet connectivity, access to our FSD (Supervised) features and their ongoing maintenance, free Supercharging programs and over-the-air software updates. We recognize revenue on automotive sales, net of any discounts or financial subsidies, upon delivery to the customer, which is when the control of a vehicle transfers. Payments are typically received at the point control transfers or in accordance with payment terms customary to the business, except sales we finance for which payments are collected over the contractual loan term. We also recognize a sales return reserve based on historical experience plus consideration for expected future market values when we offer resale value guarantees or similar buyback terms. Other features and services such as access to our internet connectivity, unlimited free Supercharging and over-the-air software updates are provisioned upon transfer of control of a vehicle and recognized over time on a straight-line basis as we have a stand-ready obligation to deliver such services to the customer. Other limited free Supercharging incentives are recognized based on actual usage or expiration, whichever is earlier. We recognize revenue related to these other features and services over the performance period, which is generally the expected ownership life of the vehicle. Revenue related to FSD (Supervised) features is recognized when functionality is delivered to the customer and their ongoing maintenance is recognized over time. For our obligations related to automotive sales, we estimate standalone selling price by considering costs used to develop and deliver the service, third-party pricing of similar options and other information that may be available. Customers may purchase subscriptions, including FSD (Supervised) and premium connectivity, after taking delivery of their vehicles. Revenue from subscriptions is recognized either over time or point in time depending on the nature of contractual terms.

Any fees or financial subsidies that are paid or payable by us to a customer’s lender when we arrange the financing are recognized upfront as an offset against automotive sales revenue. As our contract costs related to automotive sales are typically fulfilled within one year, the costs to obtain a contract are expensed as incurred. Amounts billed to customers related to shipping and handling are classified as automotive sales revenue, and we have elected to recognize the cost for freight and shipping when control over vehicles, parts or accessories have transferred to the customer as an expense in cost of automotive sales revenue. Our policy is to exclude taxes collected from a customer from the transaction price of automotive contracts.

34

We offer resale value guarantees to our commercial banking partners in connection with certain vehicle leasing programs. Under these programs, we originate the lease with our end customer and immediately transfer the lease and the underlying vehicle to our commercial banking partner, with the transaction being accounted for as a sale under ASC 606. We receive upfront payment for the vehicle, do not bear casualty and credit risks during the lease term, and we provide a guarantee capped to a limit if they are unable to sell the vehicle at or above the vehicle’s contractual or determined residual value at the end of the lease term. We estimate a guarantee liability in accordance with ASC 460, Guarantees and record it within other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. On a quarterly basis, we assess the estimated market value of vehicles sold under these programs to determine whether there have been changes to the amount of expected resale value guarantee liabilities. As we accumulate more data related to the resale values of our vehicles or as market conditions change, there may be material changes to their estimated values. 

Inventory Valuation

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is computed using standard cost for vehicles and energy products, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. We record inventory write-downs for excess or obsolete inventories based upon assumptions about current and future demand forecasts. If our inventory on-hand is in excess of our future demand forecast, the excess amounts are written-off.

We also review our inventory to determine whether its carrying value exceeds the net amount realizable upon the ultimate sale of the inventory. This requires us to determine the estimated selling price of our vehicles less the estimated cost to convert the inventory on-hand into a finished product. Once inventory is written-down, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.

Should our estimates of future selling prices or production costs change, additional and potentially material write-downs may be required. A small change in our estimates may result in a material charge to our reported financial results.

Warranties

We provide a manufacturer’s warranty on all new and used vehicles and a warranty on the installation and components of the energy generation and storage systems we sell for periods typically between 1 to 25 years. We accrue a warranty reserve for the products sold by us, which includes our best estimate of the projected costs to repair or replace items under warranties and recalls if identified. These estimates are based on actual claims incurred to date and an estimate of the nature, frequency and costs of future claims. These estimates are inherently uncertain and changes to our historical or projected warranty experience may cause material changes to the warranty reserve in the future. The warranty reserve does not include projected service costs associated with our vehicles subject to operating lease accounting and our energy generation and storage systems under lease contracts or PPAs, as these service costs are expensed as incurred. The portion of the warranty reserve expected to be incurred within the next 12 months is included within Accrued liabilities and other, while the remaining balance is included within Other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. For liabilities that we are entitled to receive indemnification from our suppliers, we record receivables for the contractually obligated amounts on the consolidated balance sheets as a component of Prepaid expenses and other current assets for the current portion and as Other non-current assets for the long-term portion. Warranty expense is recorded as a component of Cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of operations. Due to the magnitude of our automotive business, our accrued warranty balance is primarily related to our automotive segment.

Stock-Based Compensation

We use the fair value method of accounting for our restricted stock awards (“RSAs”), stock options and restricted stock units (“RSUs”) granted to employees and for our employee stock purchase plan (“the ESPP”) to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for the stock-based awards. Stock-based compensation expense for equity awards is a non-cash expense and is recorded in Cost of revenues, Research and development expense and Selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations based on the function of the employee.

35

Equity awards with service and/or performance conditions

The fair value of stock option awards with service and/or performance conditions and the ESPP is estimated on the grant or offering date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected award term and expected share price volatility. The fair value of RSUs with service and/or performance conditions is measured on the grant date based on the closing fair market value of our common stock. The resulting stock-based compensation expense for stock options, RSUs and the ESPP is recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the awards, usually the vesting period, which is generally four years for stock options and RSUs and six months for the ESPP. 

The fair value of restricted stock granted to our CEO with service and/or performance conditions is measured on the grant date based on the closing fair market value of our common stock, adjusted to take into account the illiquidity discount due to any applicable required holding period, less any purchase price or offset amount. The illiquidity discount is determined using a valuation model that requires inputs such as expected share price volatility and the employee’s expected tax rate. The inputs used in the valuation models, which are subjective and generally require significant judgment, are unique to each award based on the best available information at the valuation date.  

Stock-based compensation expense for equity awards with performance conditions is recognized over the requisite service period when the vesting of the award becomes probable. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis for equity awards with only a service condition and on a graded vesting basis for equity awards with a performance condition, net of actual forfeitures in the period. 

Equity awards with market, service and performance conditions

The fair value and derived service period of performance-based awards granted to our CEO with market, service and performance conditions are estimated on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. A Monte Carlo simulation model requires inputs such as the risk-free interest rate, expected award term, expected share dilution and expected share price volatility. For awards with a holding requirement that is in effect post-vesting, the fair value is adjusted to take into account an illiquidity discount, which is determined using a valuation model that requires inputs such as expected share price volatility and the employee’s expected tax rate. These inputs, which are subjective and generally require significant judgment, are unique to each award based on the best available information at the valuation date.   

For such awards, stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the expected performance achievement period of individual performance milestones when the achievement of each individual performance milestone becomes probable. If applicable, stock-based compensation expense for such awards is recognized over the longer of (i) the expected service period, (ii) the expected achievement period for the operational milestone (performance condition) and (iii) the expected achievement period for the related market capitalization milestone determined on the grant date, with recognition beginning at the point in time that the relevant operational milestone is considered probable of achievement. If such operational milestone becomes probable any time after the grant date or the expected achievement period changes, we will recognize a cumulative expense adjustment from the grant date to that point in time. Stock-based compensation expense will continue to be recognized over the expected achievement period for the operational milestone (if applicable) regardless of whether the market capitalization milestone is achieved earlier than its expected achievement period or achieved at all, as long as the service condition continues to be satisfied. If an operational milestone is subsequently determined to be improbable of achievement, stock-based compensation expense previously recognized would be reversed in the period the condition is deemed improbable.  

Income Taxes

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets that are not more likely than not to be realized. We monitor the realizability of our deferred tax assets taking into account all relevant factors at each reporting period. In completing our assessment of realizability of our deferred tax assets, we consider our history of income (loss) measured at pre-tax income (loss) adjusted for permanent book-tax differences on a jurisdictional basis, volatility in actual earnings, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation in recent prior years, and impacts of the timing of reversal of existing temporary differences. We also rely on our assessment of the Company’s projected future results of business operations, including uncertainty in future operating results relative to historical results, volatility in the market price of our common stock and its performance over time, variable macroeconomic conditions impacting our ability to forecast future taxable income, and changes in business that may affect the existence and magnitude of future taxable income. Our valuation allowance assessment is based on our best estimate of future results considering all available information.

36

Furthermore, significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax settlement is uncertain. As a result, we recognize the effect of this uncertainty on our tax attributes or taxes payable based on our estimates of the eventual outcome. These effects are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are supportable, we believe that it is more likely than not that some of those positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We are required to file income tax returns in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, which requires us to interpret the applicable tax laws and regulations in effect in such jurisdictions. Such returns are subject to audit by the various federal, state and foreign taxing authorities, who may disagree with respect to our tax positions. We believe that our consideration is adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. We review and update our estimates in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit, the lapse of a statute of limitations or a change in estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters differs from our expectations, such differences may impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.

Results of Operations

Revenues

 Year Ended December 31,2025 vs. 2024 Change2024 vs. 2023 Change

(Dollars in millions)202520242023$%$%

Automotive sales$65,821 $72,480 $78,509 $(6,659)(9)%$(6,029)(8)%

Automotive regulatory credits1,993 2,763 1,790 (770)(28)%973 54 %

Automotive leasing1,712 1,827 2,120 (115)(6)%(293)(14)%

Total automotive revenues69,526 77,070 82,419 (7,544)(10)%(5,349)(6)%

Services and other12,530 10,534 8,319 1,996 19 %2,215 27 %

Total automotive & services and other segment revenue82,056 87,604 90,738 (5,548)(6)%(3,134)(3)%

Energy generation and storage segment revenue12,771 10,086 6,035 2,685 27 %4,051 67 %

Total revenues$94,827 $97,690 $96,773 $(2,863)(3)%$917 1 %

Automotive & Services and Other Segment

Automotive sales revenue includes revenues related to cash and financing deliveries of new vehicles, including internet connectivity, access to our FSD (Supervised) features and their ongoing maintenance, free Supercharging programs and over-the-air software updates. These deliveries are vehicles that are not subject to lease accounting. 

Automotive regulatory credits includes sales of regulatory credits to other automotive manufacturers. Our revenue from automotive regulatory credits is directly related to our new vehicle production, sales and pricing negotiated with our customers. We monetize them proactively as new vehicles are sold based on standing arrangements with buyers of such credits, typically as close as possible to the production and delivery of the vehicle or changes in regulation impacting the credits. 

Automotive leasing revenue includes the amortization of revenue for vehicles under direct operating lease agreements and lease buyout revenue. Additionally, automotive leasing revenue includes direct sales-type leasing programs where we recognize all revenue associated with the sales-type lease upon delivery to the customer.

Services and other revenue consists of sales of used vehicles, non-warranty maintenance services and collision, paid Supercharging sessions, automotive insurance business revenue, part sales and retail merchandise sales.

2025 compared to 2024

Automotive sales revenue decreased $6.66 billion, or 9%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, due a decrease of approximately 8% in cash deliveries and a lower average selling price per unit driven by sales mix and higher customer incentives such as attractive financing options.

Automotive regulatory credits revenue decreased $770 million, or 28%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024. Fluctuations in automotive regulatory credits are impacted by our supply of credits, subject to changes in regulation, production and sales. In 2025, governmental and regulatory actions, such as OBBBA, have restricted certain regulatory credit programs tied to our products. Furthermore, we are impacted by the demand for credits by other automobile manufacturers.

37

Services and other revenue increased $2.00 billion, or 19%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to increases in paid Supercharging sessions, non-warranty maintenance services and collision revenue, used vehicle sales volume and automotive insurance business revenue.

Energy Generation and Storage Segment

Energy generation and storage revenue includes sales, leasing, and financing of energy generation and storage products, services related to such products and sales of energy generation incentives.

2025 compared to 2024

Energy generation and storage revenue increased $2.69 billion, or 27%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily due to increases in Megapack and Powerwall deployments, partially offset by a decrease in average selling price of Megapack.

Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin

Year Ended December 31,2025 vs. 2024 Change2024 vs. 2023 Change

(Dollars in millions)202520242023$%$%

Cost of revenues

Automotive sales$56,267 $61,870 $65,121 $(5,603)(9)%$(3,251)(5)%

Automotive leasing898 1,003 1,268 (105)(10)%(265)(21)%

Total automotive cost of revenues57,165 62,873 66,389 (5,708)(9)%(3,516)(5)%

Services and other11,599 9,921 7,830 1,678 17 %2,091 27 %

Total automotive & services and other segment cost of revenues68,764 72,794 74,219 (4,030)(6)%(1,425)(2)%

Energy generation and storage segment8,969 7,446 4,894 1,523 20 %2,552 52 %

Total cost of revenues$77,733 $80,240 $79,113 $(2,507)(3)%$1,127 1 %

Gross profit total automotive$12,361 $14,197 $16,030 

Gross margin total automotive17.8 %18.4 %19.4 %

Gross profit total automotive & services and other segment$13,292 $14,810 $16,519 

Gross margin total automotive & services and other segment16.2 %16.9 %18.2 %

Gross profit energy generation and storage segment$3,802 $2,640 $1,141 

Gross margin energy generation and storage segment29.8 %26.2 %18.9 %

Total gross profit$17,094 $17,450 $17,660 

Total gross margin18.0 %17.9 %18.2 %

Automotive & Services and Other Segment

Cost of automotive sales revenue includes direct and indirect materials, labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and machinery, shipping and logistic costs, tariffs, reserves for estimated warranty expenses, FSD (Supervised) ongoing maintenance costs, vehicle connectivity costs, and allocations of electricity and infrastructure costs related to our free Supercharging programs. Cost of automotive sales revenues also includes adjustments to warranty expense and charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Additionally, cost of automotive sales revenue benefits from manufacturing credits recognized.

38

Cost of automotive leasing revenue includes the depreciation of operating lease vehicles, cost of goods sold associated with lease buyouts and direct sales-type leases, and servicing of leased vehicles.

Costs of services and other revenue includes cost of used vehicles including refurbishment costs, labor and material costs associated with providing non-warranty maintenance services and collision, operating costs of paid Supercharging sessions, claim costs associated with providing automotive insurance, and costs associated with our part sales and retail merchandise sales.

2025 compared to 2024

Cost of automotive sales revenue decreased $5.60 billion, or 9%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024 due to the decrease in deliveries year over year as discussed above and lower average cost per unit due to sales mix and lower material costs, partially offset by lower fixed cost absorption and an increase in tariffs compared to the prior year.

Cost of services and other revenue increased $1.68 billion, or 17%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to increases in used vehicle sales volume and cost, cost of paid Supercharging sessions, cost related to our automotive insurance business, and cost related to our non-warranty maintenance services and collision revenue.

Gross margin for total automotive decreased from 18.4% to 17.8% in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily due to a decrease in regulatory credits revenue as well as the changes in automotive sales revenue and cost of automotive sales revenue, as discussed above.

Gross margin for total automotive & services and other segment decreased from 16.9% to 16.2% in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily due to a decrease in regulatory credits revenue, partially offset by an improvement in services and other margins.

Energy Generation and Storage Segment

Cost of energy generation and storage revenue includes direct and indirect material, tariffs, labor costs, manufacturing overhead, including depreciation costs of tooling and machinery, shipping and logistic costs, warranty expense and cost of servicing. Cost of energy generation and storage revenue also includes charges to write down the carrying value of our inventory when it exceeds its estimated net realizable value and to provide for obsolete and on-hand inventory in excess of forecasted demand. Additionally, cost of energy generation and storage revenue benefits from manufacturing credits earned. In agreements for energy generation and storage systems and PPAs where we are the lessor, the cost of revenue is primarily comprised of depreciation of the cost of leased energy generation and storage systems, maintenance costs associated with those systems and amortization of any initial direct costs.

2025 compared to 2024

Cost of energy generation and storage revenue increased $1.52 billion, or 20%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily from increases in Megapack and Powerwall deployments, partially offset by a decrease in average cost per unit for Megapack and Powerwall from lower raw material costs, lower manufacturing costs for Megapack in part from the ramp of Shanghai Megafactory, partially offset by higher tariffs.

Gross margin for energy generation and storage increased from 26.2% to 29.8% in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due the changes in energy generation and storage revenue and cost of energy generation and storage revenue, as discussed above.

Research and Development Expense

Year Ended December 31,2025 vs. 2024 Change2024 vs. 2023 Change

(Dollars in millions)202520242023$%$%

Research and development$6,411 $4,540 $3,969 $1,871 41 %$571 14 %

As a percentage of revenues7 %5 %4 %

Research and development (“R&D”) expense consists primarily of personnel costs for our teams in engineering and research, facilities costs such as data center depreciation, prototyping expense, and professional and contract services.

39

R&D expense increased $1.87 billion, or 41%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to increases in costs related to AI and other programs as we continue to expand our product roadmap and technologies and an increase in stock-based compensation of $500 million. R&D expense as a percentage of revenue increased from 5% to 7% in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to higher R&D expense and a decrease in total revenue as compared to the prior year.

Selling, General and Administrative Expense

Year Ended December 31,2025 vs. 2024 Change2024 vs. 2023 Change

(Dollars in millions)202520242023$%$%

Selling, general and administrative$5,834 $5,150 $4,800 $684 13 %$350 7 %

As a percentage of revenues6 %5 %5 %

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expense generally consist of personnel and facilities costs related to our stores, marketing, sales, executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, as well as fees for professional and contract services, litigation settlements, bank charges and marketing fees.

SG&A expenses increased $684 million, or 13%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024 driven by a $354 million increase in operating expenses including legal charges, a $256 million increase in employee and labor costs, including professional services, a $235 million increase in stock-based compensation, partially offset by an $83 million decrease in marketing expenses and a $78 million decrease in facilities related expenses.

Restructuring and Other

Year Ended December 31,2025 vs. 2024 Change2024 vs. 2023 Change

(Dollars in millions)202520242023$%$%

Restructuring and other$494 $684 $— $(190)(28)%$684 Not meaningful

In the second quarter of 2024, we initiated and substantially completed certain restructuring actions to reduce costs and improve efficiency. As a result, we recognized $583 million of employee termination expenses in Restructuring and other in our consolidated statement of operations.

In the third quarter of 2025, we initiated certain actions in order to reduce costs and improve efficiency through convergence of AI chip design efforts. As a result, we recognized $390 million of expenses within our automotive segment in the second half of 2025, related to charges for supercomputer assets, contract terminations and employee terminations.

Interest Income

Year Ended December 31,2025 vs. 2024 Change2024 vs. 2023 Change

(Dollars in millions)202520242023$%$%

Interest income$1,680 $1,569 $1,066 $111 7 %$503 47 %

Interest income increased $111 million, or 7%, in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to higher interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments due to an increase in our average portfolio balance, partially offset by a lower average interest rate.

Other Income (Expense), Net

Year Ended December 31,2025 vs. 2024 Change2024 vs. 2023 Change

(Dollars in millions)202520242023$%$%

Other (expense) income, net$(419)$695 $172 $(1,114)Not meaningful$523 304%

Other (expense) income, net, consists of foreign exchange gains and losses related to our foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and fair value remeasurements of our digital assets following the adoption of ASU 2023-08 effective January 1, 2024. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.

40

Other (expense) income, net, changed unfavorably by $1.11 billion in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily due to mark-to-market on our bitcoin digital assets and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on our intercompany balances. As our intercompany balances are significant in nature and we do not typically hedge foreign currency risk, we can experience significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rate gains and losses from period to period.

Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes

Year Ended December 31,2025 vs. 2024 Change2024 vs. 2023 Change

(Dollars in millions)202520242023$%$%

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes$1,423 $1,837 $(5,001)$(414)(23)%$6,838 Not meaningful

Effective tax rate27 %20 %(50)%

Our provision for (benefit from) income taxes decreased by $414 million in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to a reduction in income before income taxes. Our effective tax rate increased from 20% to 27% in the year ended December 31, 2025 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to changes in the mix of our jurisdictional earnings, a decrease in foreign income deductions resulting from lower taxable income attributable to the OBBBA and the remeasurement of our deferred tax assets related to net controlled foreign corporation tested income (“NCTI”) under the OBBBA.

See Note 12, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

As discussed in Part II, Item 9B, Other Information—xAI Investment of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company entered into an agreement in January 2026 to make a minority equity investment. 

We generally expect to continue to generate net positive operating cash flow. The cash we generate from our core operations enables us to fund ongoing operations and production, our research and development projects for new products and technologies including our proprietary battery cells, additional manufacturing ramps at existing manufacturing facilities, the construction of future factories, and the continued expansion of our retail and service locations, body shops, Mobile Service fleet, Supercharger, energy product installation capabilities and autonomy and other artificial intelligence enabled products.

In addition, because a large portion of our future expenditures will be to fund our growth, we expect that if needed we will be able to adjust our capital and operating expenditures by operating segment. For example, if our near-term manufacturing operations decrease in scale or ramp more slowly than expected, including due to global economic, tax, trade or business conditions, we may choose to correspondingly slow the pace of our capital expenditures. Finally, we continually evaluate our cash needs and may decide it is best to raise additional capital or seek alternative financing sources to fund the rapid growth of our business, including through drawdowns on existing or new debt facilities or financing funds. Conversely, we may also from time to time determine that it is in our best interests to voluntarily repay certain indebtedness early.

Accordingly, we believe that our current sources of funds will provide us with adequate liquidity during the 12-month period following December 31, 2025, as well as in the long-term.

See the sections below for more details regarding the material requirements for cash in our business and our sources of liquidity to meet such needs.

Material Cash Requirements

From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements with vendors for the purchase of components and raw materials to be used in the manufacture of our products. However, due to contractual terms, variability in the precise growth curves of our development and production ramps, and opportunities to renegotiate pricing, we generally do not have binding and enforceable purchase orders under such contracts beyond the short-term, and the timing and magnitude of purchase orders beyond such period is difficult to accurately project.

41

As discussed in and subject to the considerations referenced in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Management Opportunities, Challenges and Uncertainties and 2026 Outlook—Cash Flow and Capital Expenditure Trends in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we currently expect our capital expenditures to exceed $20 billion in 2026 driven by our AI initiatives, including investments in compute infrastructure and data centers, the expansion and ramp of our manufacturing and R&D production lines and facilities, and growth in our fleet of company-operated AI-enabled assets and our retail, service and charging footprint. Changes in trade policy may necessitate adjustments to our project timelines, potentially impacting our capital expenditure expectations. 

As of December 31, 2025, we and our subsidiaries had outstanding $8.18 billion in aggregate principal amount of indebtedness, of which $1.58 billion is current. As of December 31, 2025, our total minimum lease payments was $7.96 billion, of which $1.32 billion is due in the succeeding 12 months. For details regarding our indebtedness and lease obligations, refer to Note 9, Debt, and Note 10, Leases, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Sources and Conditions of Liquidity

Our sources to fund our material cash requirements are predominantly from our deliveries and servicing of new and used vehicles, deployments and servicing of our energy storage products, interest income, and proceeds from debt facilities and equity offerings, when applicable. 

As of December 31, 2025, we had $16.51 billion and $27.55 billion of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, respectively. Balances held in foreign currencies had a U.S. dollar equivalent of $4.37 billion and consisted primarily of Chinese yuan and euro. We had $6.43 billion of unused committed credit amounts as of December 31, 2025. For details regarding our indebtedness, refer to Note 9, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We continue adapting our strategy to meet our liquidity and risk objectives, such as investing in U.S. government securities and other investments, investing in autonomy, further vertically integrating our supply chain, expanding our product roadmap and providing financing options to our customers.

Summary of Cash Flows

 Year Ended December 31,

(Dollars in millions)202520242023

Net cash provided by operating activities

$14,747 $14,923 $13,256 

Net cash used in investing activities

$(15,478)$(18,787)$(15,584)

Net cash provided by financing activities

$1,139 $3,853 $2,589 

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by our cash investments to support the growth of our business in areas such as research and development and selling, general and administrative and working capital. Our operating cash inflows include cash from vehicle sales and related servicing, sales of energy generation and storage products, customer lease and financing payments, sales of regulatory credits and interest income on our cash and investments portfolio. These cash inflows are offset by our payments to suppliers for production materials and parts used in our manufacturing process, operating expenses, operating lease payments and interest payments on our financings.

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $176 million to $14.75 billion during the year ended December 31, 2025 from $14.92 billion during the year ended December 31, 2024. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net income excluding non-cash expenses, gains and losses of $737 million, partially offset by favorable changes in net operating assets and liabilities of $561 million.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash flows from investing activities and their variability across each period related primarily to capital expenditures, which were $8.53 billion and $11.34 billion for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, mainly for global AI and operational infrastructure and factory expansion, as well as machinery and equipment as we expand and enhance our product roadmap. We also purchased $6.95 billion and $7.45 billion of investments, net of proceeds from maturities and sales, for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively.

42

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash flows from financing activities decreased by $2.71 billion to $1.14 billion during the year ended December 31, 2025 from $3.85 billion during the year ended December 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to a $3.05 billion increase in repayments of debt and a $158 million decrease in proceeds from issuances of debt. See Note 9, Debt, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding our debt obligations. Additionally, the decrease was partially offset by a $277 million decrease in principal payments on finance leases, a $133 million decrease in payments for buy-outs of noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries and $101 million of proceeds received from directors in shareholder settlement net of payment for related legal fees during the year ended December 31, 2025.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.